
# 2021-01-05

## To report:

- [x] (from 2020-10-13):  shepherd MMM/RS document to MMM website. Need to agree title and final form with DavidL
    - 2020-10-23: sent email with link and suggested title to DavidL
    - 2020-10-14: wrong document!  See https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ABrdNtaQ80xdPd1neZBuqWdCGWMbVG7ayHuTgaQZlnk/
    - 2020-10-19: sent last call to list
    - 2020-12-16: published!
        - http://blog.mappingmanuscriptmigrations.org/2020/12/16/exploring-research-questions-through-browsing-researchspace-for-mmm/
        - http://blog.mappingmanuscriptmigrations.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/Exploring-research-questions-through-browsing_-ResearchSpace-for-MMM.pdf

- [ ] (from 2020-11-04): look at changing names of blackList/whiteList in meld core codebase  (dev branch)
    - see [issue #1](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/1)
    - [x] created local "unblacking" branch from git-meld-2.0 branch
    - [x] proposed name changes - see issue
    - [ ] discuss new name choices with team
    - [ ] apply name changes to codebase
    - [ ] see if anything breaks
    - Basic changes done, hello-meld-3 app still works.  PR submitted: awaiting feedback.
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-clients-core/pull/16

- [ ] Have local branch of `meld-clients-core` running with up-to-date node packages.  Babel still has obsolete dependencies: I believe this is slated to be fixed in next major version.


- [x] (from 2020-11-04): set up project for MELD testing
    - [x] create project on GitHub: https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld
    - [x] experiment with testing frameworks
        - leaning to MochaJS, but for testing node+React server apps, thinking about how the apps should be structured.  Will initially test with "Hello MELD"
    - [x] pick testing framework; MochaJS? (alt JestJS)
    - [x] Create simple test suite for "Hello MELD": https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld/tree/main/hello-meld-1
        - NOTE: Testing targets React components, so there is no top-level test for the web page as described by index.jhs
            - This has led to some code refactoring to minimize logic in index.js and move to <App ...> component.
        - NOTE: I may end up including JestJS, as that seems to have some useful capabilities for DOM testing.

- [ ] (from 2020-11-10): work with David/Mark to get MELD simple annotation example running
    - [x] Simple Hello MELD apps are running, with basic score rendering and graph reeading
    - [ ] Add selectable score to "Hello MELD" family
        - see [issue #2](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/2)
        - have created hello-meld-3, which reads configuration from RDF graph, and uses redux integration for this

- [x] (2020-12-09): Refactor graph update logic in hello-meld-3: some of this change could be ported back into meld-clients-core?
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld/blob/main/hello-meld-3/src/app.js
        - graphComponentDidUpdate should be generic to any graph traversal
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld/commit/921b46a353940375c16fe6535419a5032bd8bb1d#diff-ebad3debbac683d90c3a536e834264de24ccbb757171778569620fe34d349933

- [x] (2020-12-15): Outline project plan to July 2021
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3 (private repo)

- [x] (2020-12-15): MELD sustainability issues notes
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/blob/main/Notes/MELD-sustainability-issues-observed.md

- [x] (2020-12-15): Initial draft outline for SSI3 report
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/blob/main/Notes/SSI3-draft-report.md

- [x] "Hello MELD"
    - Created score using Musescore 
    - Created MIDI and MP3 and MusicXML using Musescore
    - Created MEI from MusicXML using Verovio web site
        - See: https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld/tree/main/hello-meld-2


## New actions

### Codebase updates

ACTION GK: Check there is some reference to governance/process in the sustainability notes;  e.g. request review via GitHub.

Re governance issues:  need to discuss in the context

Check out governance document from MELD?

Tech: signoff by DL and DW

See: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_ZBXb0QvDTauPmw1X_5w1vcHqtX6t7sm_BzbeZb6_uc/edit#heading=h.j3fekq3jzeiy

Plan to make minor process update to this - e.g. use GitHub review request.

Also, make ref to older OSS Watch.

(Hoping for nod from DW)

ACTION GK: ask both Davids to review PR.
- Tried, but can add only one.  Not sure if it's possible to request two reviewers.


### SSI3 reporting 

ACTION GK:  to SSI report outline:  discuss DH project structures (resource constrained; discussion to have).  Dig out old notes and circulate?  Start collecting notes about project issues.  Quantify how much effort is required for various sustainability activities.

Recognize the difference between long-term infra goals vs immediate requirements (cf. Brooks reference).

Combined resourcing of research and service support (e.g,. researcher and library, etc.)  Scholar/institutional aspects.  Failure of linked art 3 funding app.  Research questions driving tech development?  RQs as "predictions"?   Also, science vs creative.

DH as projects -- combining engineering and scholarship...???  Methodological issues.   Tech people working with non-tech people - collaboration models.


### Mini-MELDfest

ACTION GK: present testing framework

ACTION GK: MELD V2 release report -- what's in the pull request, and what's in the pipeline, refactoring

Keep it short - just a summary


### Other actions

ACTION GK: how to go about keeping up with Node dependencies.  Proposal to bring meld-clients-core up to latest node modules.

ACTION GK: think about process for adding new non-breaking APIs to the MELD core.

ACTION GK: think about process for keeping old apps functioning without breakage (see previous) - recognizing the requirements of research software to move forwards...

ACTION GK: add "wish-list" to project plan outline


## Other discussion

Ethnographic study on DH research for wishlist?

Tablature discussion ...


### Check in with David/Mark?

Don't expect much input from DL in the next month.

Refactoring selectable score as hello-meld-4; engage with Mark


### Performance

- "MIDI controller" - sends MIDI message to Ableton - or anything that can respond to MIDI messages.

- https://apps.apple.com/us/app/touchosc/id288120394









