2021-06-22 meeting notes  KP/DL/GK

Mostly done.  Still problems with testing.  
Possible unit testing of Graph traversal without React (reducers are pure functions, so should be OK).

ACTIONS:

1. [x] GK: Ask Alistair if he might provide SSI report feedback by end of week.  Update report and merge to main branch.

2. [x] GK: Update discussion of Slack vs other per notes.

3. [ ] GK: With updates, merge back to main, create stand-alone document and notify DDeR of "final version" for circulation within SSI.

4. [ ] GK: Create pull request for "graphComponentDidUpdate" change to MELD-clients-core.

