# 2021-03-30 SSI3/MELD progress notes

Outline plan, see: https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3

## To report

- Continued work on [SSI3 report material](../Notes/SSI3-draft-report.md).

- Incorporated comments from last meeting (2021-03-02)

- GK contract extension to end July is confirmed

### Meeting notes and new actions

Next meeting: 2021-05-04

@@ discuss

discuss mark

SSI3 extension

(TaNC submission due: end April.  MELD should be ready.)

Possible SSI3 presentation

ACTION: Update report document; send to DDeR for comment; send to DW for comment (suggest forwarding to others in Trompa)

ACTION: add acknowledgements to report

When to do week with Mark?

Need clear spec for work with Mark

ACTION DL?: spec for work with Mark??  Notify GK if attendance at talks would help?

ACTION: email Mark to confirm date.

Goal for Mark sessions: Simple version of "selectable score + some kind of structured annotation types".  @@ mention of "palettes of annotation types" in Solid.   Focus on getting Mark up to speed.  Working on "Hello-meld-3/4..."

BiTH ... working on demo June/July - DL/MS


Priorities

1. SSI3 report finalization and circulation

2. working with Mark

3. wrap up hello meld work






### Activity summary

- Continued work on report material for SSI3 (meld-testing-ssi3/Notes/SSI3-draft-report.md)

    Here's a link to the material I've been assembling: https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/blob/main/Notes/SSI3-draft-report.md

    It's taken longer than I expected, partly because I've been distracted by other things, and partly because it's been more work than I originally anticipated (cf. https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3).


### Actions from last meeting

DONE (this note added to SSI3 report material to be worked in): (GK) Note problems of building on a shifting ecosystem.  Try and state this clearly.  What are the mitigations?
    - Kevin observation:  problems of building on fast moving ecosystem.
    - Consolidation around platforms.  Needs large engineering efforts to follow.
    - Choice about using new platforms -- needed to get existing facilities.

PENDING: (GK) pull request for node package updates with working hello-meld apps (new branch)
    - Post MELD 2.0 updates - Moving new refactored app code into MELD core

PENDING: (GK) review and update plan (not yet done formally; focusing on report)


### Older actions

- [ ] (from 2020-11-04): look at changing names of blackList/whiteList in meld core codebase  (dev branch)
    - see [issue #1](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/1)
    - [x] created local "unblacking" branch from git-meld-2.0 branch
    - [x] proposed name changes - see issue
    - [x] discuss new name choices with team
    - [x] apply name changes to codebase
    - [ ] see if anything breaks
    - Basic changes done, hello-meld-3 app still works.  PR submitted: awaiting feedback.
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-clients-core/pull/16
    - 2021-03-02: Still awaiting feedback
    - 2021-03-30: Still awaiting feedback

- [ ] (from 2020-11-10): work with David/Mark to get MELD simple annotation example running
    - [x] Simple Help MELD app is running, with basic score rendering.
    - [ ] Add selectable score to "Hello MELD" family
        - see [issue #2](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/2)
        - have created hello-meld-3, which reads configuration from RDF graph, and uses redux integration for this
    - 2021-02-02: No further progress
 - [x] Refactoring hello-meld-1 and hello-meld-2 to facilitate testing
    - [x] Move non-boilerplate logic into React Component implementations 

- [x] Add test suite and refactor as required
   - [x] "hello-meld-2"
   - [ ] "hello-meld-3"
   - MELD testing woes
       - After previously reported success testing a stand-alone React app, I've run into problems testing ...
       - Switch from Mocha to Jest - doesn't resolve problems
       - See: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/#scatterplot_overview
           - (I think it's telling that the JS ecosystem needs such a survey - not such good news for sustainability, IMO)
       - See: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/testing/
           - Confirms Jest as the preferred testing platform, which is what I'm using
           - I'm also using testing-library
       - See also: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/datalayer/ (note Redux)
       - See also: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/conclusion/
       - Responding to questions posed by Kevin: 
            1. Best test practice: Jest (see above)
            2. Effort to move MELD to use.  Unknown.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): create PR for refactored graph update logic, based from meld-dev-2.0 branch
    - anticipate merging for meld-dev-2.1 release.
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld/blob/main/hello-meld-3/src/app.js
        - graphComponentDidUpdate should be generic to any graph traversal

- [ ] Update dev branch of `meld-clients-core` to run with up-to-date node packages
    - Babel still has obsolete dependencies: this is to be fixed in the next major version (babel 8), which was scheduled for release in late 2020 but as of 2021-01 still has about half of its milestone tasks outstanding.  E.g. see: https://github.com/babel/babel/issues/10684, https://github.com/babel/babel/milestone/16
    - Blocked awaiting Babel release 8.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): how to go about keeping up with Node dependencies?  Proposal to bring meld-clients-core up to latest node modules.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): think about process for adding new non-breaking APIs to the MELD core.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): think about process for keeping old apps functioning without breakage (see previous) - recognizing the requirements of research software to move forwards...

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): add "wish-list" to project plan outline


