# 2021-03-02 SSI3/MELD progress notes

Outline plan, see: https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3

## To report

### Meeting notes

KP: 

on timing - review SSI3 doc - next meeting

on reporting - project report vs advice and guidance ("practice led study") - reflections on MELD as case study - more than characterize problem - also add recommendations
(e.g. "be aware, think about at outset")

DL: "Hello MELD as method of "onboarding" very effective" 

KP: interactions between experience programmer working with digital humanist, in small quantities spread over time, can have a massive multiplier effect.

KP: capture different ways of looking at s/w (HTTP testing vs internal API testing)

KP: try and situate the report against the Lohengrin/Delius app.  E.g., how would testing approach would work/apply to existing app.

KP: different testing approaches - what is effect on technical debt?

DL: noted the value of paying down tech debt away from pressures of immediate project (e.g. SSI3 work for MELD).

KP: in framing report - think about what would be useful for a project like TanC or BitH, and offer recommendations that work towards that.

DL: BitH MELD dev hopefully kicks in fairly soon.  Doesn't want it to be delayed too long, else no time.  Need clarity of requirements.

Next meeting: 2 Mar 2021, 11:00

TanC submission due: end April.  MELD should be ready.


### Activity summary

- MELD mini-fest presentation and discussion of MELD issues encountered

- Finally got repeatable build for hello-meld-3 (it's messy!)

- Minor hello MELD bug fixes

- Spent time working with Mark to get hello-meld-3 running, and helping with work on selectable score

- Started work on report material for SSI3 (meld-testing-ssi3/Notes/SSI3-draft-report.md)

(was away for nearly a week)

### Actions from last meeting

DONE: (GK) add to notes for SSI3 report: For sustainability:  Use existing system affordances to support process to the maximum extent possible.  E.g. GitHub reviews requested.

IN HAND (this note added to SSI3 report material to be worked in): (GK) Note problems of building on a shifting ecosystem.  Try and state this clearly.  What are the mitigations?
    - Kevin observation:  problems of building on fast moving ecosystem.
    - Consolidation around platforms.  Needs large engineering efforts to follow.
    - Choice about using new platforms -- needed to get existing facilities.

DONE: (GK) look at agenda for next week.  (Kevin email: 2021-01-21)
    - What are priorities for MELD for my time remaining?

DONE: (GK) update Mark on status of work ("hello-meld-4")
    - If testing hits a blocker:  hello-meld-4 (selectable score) is still viable as a "teaching" app.
    - Maybe revert to web (HTTP) interface level.
        - I thought more about this, and note that most of the results of apps under consideration would not be visible to HTTP

DONE: (GK) trawl notes to collate and reflect notes for report (e.g. for March)

DONE: (GK) Prepare notes for next week as high-level view of this...  discuss testing, testing strategies, pivot, what?, what went wrong

DONE?: (GK) Push ahead with Jest testing, or abandon: decide for next meeting.  Current view, per slack discussion with DavidL, is to push ahead with testing after drafting SSI3 report, until DavidL ids ready to work on brining dependencies as up-to-date as possible.

ACTION: (GK) pull request for node package updates with working hello-meld apps (new branch)
    - Post MELD 2.0 updates - Moving new refactored app code into MELD core

ACTION: (GK) review and update plan (not yet done formally; focusing on report)


### Older actions

- [ ] (from 2020-11-04): look at changing names of blackList/whiteList in meld core codebase  (dev branch)
    - see [issue #1](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/1)
    - [x] created local "unblacking" branch from git-meld-2.0 branch
    - [x] proposed name changes - see issue
    - [ ] discuss new name choices with team
    - [ ] apply name changes to codebase
    - [ ] see if anything breaks
    - Basic changes done, hello-meld-3 app still works.  PR submitted: awaiting feedback.
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-clients-core/pull/16
    - 2021-02-02: Still awaiting feedback

- [ ] (from 2020-11-10): work with David/Mark to get MELD simple annotation example running
    - [x] Simple Help MELD app is running, with basic score rendering.
    - [ ] Add selectable score to "Hello MELD" family
        - see [issue #2](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/2)
        - have created hello-meld-3, which reads configuration from RDF graph, and uses redux integration for this
    - 2021-02-02: No further progress
 - [x] Refactoring hello-meld-1 and hello-meld-2 to facilitate testing
    - [x] Move non-boilerplate logic into React Component implementations 

- [x] Add test suite and refactor as required
   - [x] "hello-meld-2"
   - [ ] "hello-meld-3"
   - MELD testing woes
       - After previously reported success testing a stand-alone React app, I've run into problems testing ...
       - Switch from Mocha to Jest - doesn't resolve problems
       - See: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/#scatterplot_overview
           - (I think it's telling that the JS ecosystem needs such a survey - not such good news for sustainability, IMO)
       - See: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/testing/
           - Confirms Jest as the preferred testing platform, which is what I'm using
           - I'm also using testing-library
       - See also: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/datalayer/ (note Redux)
       - See also: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/conclusion/
       - Responding to questions posed by Kevin: 
            1. Best test practice: Jest (see above)
            2. Effort to move MELD to use.  Unknown.


## Pending actions

- [ ] (from 2020-11-10): work with David/Mark to get MELD simple annotation example running
    - [x] Simple Hello MELD apps are running, with basic score rendering and graph reeading
    - [ ] Add selectable score to "Hello MELD" family
        - see [issue #2](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/2)
        - have created hello-meld-3, which reads configuration from RDF graph, and uses redux integration for this

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): create PR for refactored graph update logic, based from meld-dev-2.0 branch
    - anticipate merging for meld-dev-2.1 release.
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld/blob/main/hello-meld-3/src/app.js
        - graphComponentDidUpdate should be generic to any graph traversal

- [ ] Update dev branch of `meld-clients-core` to run with up-to-date node packages
    - Babel still has obsolete dependencies: this is to be fixed in the next major version (babel 8), which was scheduled for release in late 2020 but as of 2021-01 still has about half of its milestone tasks outstanding.  E.g. see: https://github.com/babel/babel/issues/10684, https://github.com/babel/babel/milestone/16
    - Blocked awaiting Babel release 8.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): how to go about keeping up with Node dependencies?  Proposal to bring meld-clients-core up to latest node modules.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): think about process for adding new non-breaking APIs to the MELD core.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): think about process for keeping old apps functioning without breakage (see previous) - recognizing the requirements of research software to move forwards...

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): add "wish-list" to project plan outline



