# 2021-02-02 SSI3/MELD progress notes

Outline plan, see: https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3

## To report

- [ ] (from 2020-11-04): look at changing names of blackList/whiteList in meld core codebase  (dev branch)
    - see [issue #1](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/1)
    - [x] created local "unblacking" branch from git-meld-2.0 branch
    - [x] proposed name changes - see issue
    - [ ] discuss new name choices with team
    - [ ] apply name changes to codebase
    - [ ] see if anything breaks
    - Basic changes done, hello-meld-3 app still works.  PR submitted: awaiting feedback.
        - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-clients-core/pull/16
    - 2021-02-02: Still awaiting feedback

- [x] (from 2021-01-05) via GitHub, ask both Davids to review "unblacking" PR.
    - Tried, but can add only one.  Not sure if it's possible to request two reviewers.  Now assuming that DavidL will subsequently request review from DavidW.
    - Was having problem with getting two reviewers in Github
    - DavidW now added to reviews requested

- [ ] (from 2020-11-10): work with David/Mark to get MELD simple annotation example running
    - [x] Simple Help MELD app is running, with basic score rendering.
    - [ ] Add selectable score to "Hello MELD" family
        - see [issue #2](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/2)
        - have created hello-meld-3, which reads configuration from RDF graph, and uses redux integration for this
    - 2021-02-02: No further progress
 - [x] Refactoring hello-meld-1 and hello-meld-2 to facilitate testing
    - [x] Move non-boilerplate logic into React Component implementations 

- [x] Add test suite and refactor as required
   - [x] "hello-meld-2"
   - [ ] "hello-meld-3"
   - MELD testing woes
       - After previously reported success testing a stand-alone React app, I've run into problems testing ...
       - Switch from Mocha to Jest - doesn't resolve problems
       - See: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/#scatterplot_overview
           - (I think it's telling that the JS ecosystem needs such a survey - not such good news for sustainability, IMO)
       - See: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/testing/
           - Confirms Jest as the preferred testing platform, which is what I'm using
           - I'm also using testing-library
       - See also: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/technologies/datalayer/ (note Redux)
       - See also: https://2020.stateofjs.com/en-US/conclusion/
       - Responding to questions posed by Kevin: 
            1. Best test practice: Jest (see above)
            2. Effort to move MELD to use.  Unknown.


## New actions

DONE: (GK) add to notes for SSI3 report: For sustainability:  Use existing system affordances to support process to the maximum extent possible.  E.g. GitHub reviews requested.

ACTION: (GK) Note problems of building on a shifting ecosystem.  Try and state this clearly.  What are the mitigations?
    - Kevin observation:  problems of building on fast moving ecosystem.
    - Consolidation around platforms.  Needs large engineering efforts to follow.
    - Choice about using new platforms -- needed to get existing facilities.

DONE: (GK) look at agenda for next week.  (Kevin email: 2021-01-21)
    - What are priorities for MELD for my time remaining?

ACTION: (GK) pull request for node package updates with working hello-meld apps (new branch)
    - Post MELD 2.0 updates - Moving new refactored app code into MELD core

ACTION: (GK) review and update plan

DONE: (GK) update Mark on status of work ("hello-meld-4")
    - If testing hits a blocker:  hello-meld-4 (selectable score) is still viable as a "teaching" app.
    - Maybe revert to web (HTTP) interface level.
        - I thought more about this, and note that most of the results of apps under consideration would not be visible to HTTP

DONE: (GK) trawl notes to collate and reflect notes for report (e.g. for March)

DONE: (GK) Prepare notes for next week as high-level view of this...  discuss testing, testing strategies, pivot, what?, what went wrong

ACTION: (GK) Push ahead with Jest testing, or abandon: decide for next meeting.

Next meeting: 2 Mar 2021, 11:00


## Tech discussion of testing problem

My feeling is that it _should_ be down to configuring the test environment, and should not require extensive changes to MELD.  But it's possible there are things that MELD does that make things more difficult.   One possibility might be to route *all* react calls via additional interface functions in M-C-C, so that a calling test application does not load React directly.  But it's too early to say.  My judgement would be that if extensive code changes in MELD are required, that seems unlikely to actually happen.

Part of the problem appears to be React hooks framework, but I see no way to avoid using that.

There's an additional problem that if the environment isn't "just right" (whatever counts for that?), then the redux framework breaks:
"Error: Uncaught [Error: Could not find "store" in the context of "Connect(Score)". Either wrap the root component in a <Provider>, or pass a custom React context provider to <Provider> and the corresponding React context consumer to Connect(Score) in connect options.]"   This time the problem also manifests in the app.

- Building "hello world" apps has real value...

- Ronan comment: Move testing into M-C-C.  

- Test apps or test library?  Minimal test coverage better than none.

- Example go HumDrum - built on underlying Unix text processing;  cf. HTTP-level testing.  Why did I switch away?

- Affect of architecture design choices on testability
    - Possible recommendation: expose more through network interface?


## Outstanding actions

- [ ] (from 2020-11-10): work with David/Mark to get MELD simple annotation example running
    - [x] Simple Hello MELD apps are running, with basic score rendering and graph reeading
    - [ ] Add selectable score to "Hello MELD" family
        - see [issue #2](https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-testing-ssi3/issues/2)
        - have created hello-meld-3, which reads configuration from RDF graph, and uses redux integration for this

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): create PR for refactored graph update logic, based from meld-dev-2.0 branch
    - anticipate merging for meld-dev-2.1 release.
    - https://github.com/oerc-music/meld-hello-meld/blob/main/hello-meld-3/src/app.js
        - graphComponentDidUpdate should be generic to any graph traversal

- [ ] Update dev branch of `meld-clients-core` to run with up-to-date node packages
    - Babel still has obsolete dependencies: this is to be fixed in the next major version (babel 8), which was scheduled for release in late 2020 but as of 2021-01 still has about half of its milestone tasks outstanding.  E.g. see: https://github.com/babel/babel/issues/10684, https://github.com/babel/babel/milestone/16
    - Blocked awaiting Babel release 8.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): add reference to governance/update process to sustainability notes
    - need to discuss in the context of DH research project constraints
    - [x] Note added in `MELD-sustainability-issues-observed.md`
    - [x] Check out governance document from MELD.
        - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_ZBXb0QvDTauPmw1X_5w1vcHqtX6t7sm_BzbeZb6_uc/edit#heading=h.j3fekq3jzeiy
        - where is the list of maintained apps and branches.
            - should dependencies be noted?
        - I don't entirely understand the bit about "must also apply it to all maintained branches"
        - Plan to make minor process update to this - e.g. use GitHub review request.
    - [ ] Also, make ref to older OSS Watch governance recommendations?

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): how to go about keeping up with Node dependencies?  Proposal to bring meld-clients-core up to latest node modules.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): think about process for adding new non-breaking APIs to the MELD core.

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): think about process for keeping old apps functioning without breakage (see previous) - recognizing the requirements of research software to move forwards...

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): add "wish-list" to project plan outline

- [ ] (from 2021-01-05): to SSI report outline:  discuss DH project structures (resource constrained; discussion to have).  Dig out old notes and circulate?  Start collecting notes about project issues.  Quantify how much effort is required for various sustainability activities.
    - Recognize the difference between long-term infra goals vs immediate requirements (cf. Brooks reference).
    - Combined resourcing of research and service support (e.g,. researcher and library, etc.)  Scholar/institutional aspects.  Failure of linked art 3 funding app.  Research questions driving tech development?  RQs as "predictions"?   Also, science vs creative.
    - Ethnographic study on DH research for wishlist?
    - DH project characterization
        - resource constrained; no budget for pure engineering concerns
        - combining engineering and scholarship?
        - tech people working with non-tech people 
            - collaboration models
        - methodological issues (enginbeers and scholars having different perspectives)  
        - technical vs scholarly requirements (MusicXML vs MEI).


## Other notes

Ethnographic study on DH research for wishlist?

Tablature discussion ...


### Check in with David/Mark?

Don't expect much input from DL in the next month.

Consider refactoring selectable score for hello-meld-4


### Mini-MELDfest

- present testing framework

- MELD V2 release report -- what's in the pull request, and what's in the pipeline, refactoring

- Keep it short - just a summary


### Performance

- "MIDI controller" - sends MIDI message to Ableton - or anything that can respond to MIDI messages.

- https://apps.apple.com/us/app/touchosc/id288120394

- 


## Other discussion notes

Slack conversation with DavidL:

https://meld-music.slack.com/archives/D01A81169S5/p1611051771003100

Email of 2021-01-27 and discussion:
 4. Tried to create a test suite for hello-meld-2.  Initially tried using mocha (test environment), and ran into a problem with module loading in meld-clients-core.  I initially put this down to a mocha test environment problem and switched to using Jest... 

5. Tried to create a test suite for hello-meld-2 using the Jest test environment.  Ran into same/similar problem.  I spent an hour or so with my son yesterday (who uses this stuff in a commercial environment), and he didn't see anything obviously wrong with the code, bit the general setup with MELDS is differently organiuzed to what he's been using. 

6. Key to my experiments is that I've been using 'npm link' to work with my local copy of meld0-clients-core - a setup that I think is essential for serious sustainable development - it's possible that it would all work if I just installed it into the hello-meld-2 app from git... but that introduces a different set of management issues.   (Hmmm... I could try installing into the hello-meld-2 app from the local file system copy.  @@TODO) 

So the situation is that the apps appear to work OK using my local testing setup, but they don't work in the testing environments, apparently of problems locating modules.  There are numerous other problems that get thrown up by the node/react environment, all of which militate against sustainability, but so far I think I've been able to work around them (mainly problems with multiple flavours of javascript and JSX, transpiling code, module dependencies, dynamic environment that doesn't uniformly keep up with the latest versions of all the dependencies.  And the bete noir for me is the "react hooks" system which, as far as I can tell, is the feature that is forcing all of the other issues to be surfaced. 

(I may have a hand-made workaround for the module loading problem that involves setting symlinks ... but it's thrown up a different problem to do with accessing the redux store.) 

There are still things to try, but I've spent two full days this month trying to sort this problem.  And I'm starting to wonder if it's a line I should be following, but alternatives I can think of don't seem to really be addressing the sustainability issue.  (Bottom line: if it's not testable, it's not sustainable.) 

Kevin:

My initial questions, which would be very helpful to inform that discussion if you got a chance beforehand: 

1) what is the best test practice, and/or the most widely used testing framework, for node/react development? It would be helpful if you could survey this (David and I won't know). 

(While I wouldn't entire put it past the Facebooks of this world to not be using anything, my instinct is to assume they must be using *something* for testing) 

2) If there were a solution to move MELD to use such a framework (assuming one exists. perhaps mocha or jest?), how much effort would it be? What changes to MELD would be required? 
 I think the below means you have an answer to Q1. I don't feel I have clear answers to Q2, so in that sense I don't think it's moot? So Q2 still stands; but to put it a different way, are you proposing: 

- we ought to be using Jest, but there are problems with how it interacts with MELD as-is? If so I don't fully understand where the problem lies (beyond the libraries we use??). Or what you're proposing we'd need to do to overcome this? 

or 

- moving MELD to a sustainable footing is impossible, because it's impossible to build a test framework for it? (which intuitively leads back to the previous option?  depending on how absolute impossible is?!?) 

I agree your findings so far indicate it may be a time to review next steps. If you could have a couple of alternative proposals for those next steps, along with pros/cons, that would be great! (that's pretty much what I'm trying to elicit from through those q). 










